04.11.2014

esla Motors Inc (NASDAQ:TSLA) Enters The Chinese Market



Silicon Valley’s electric car manufacturer, Tesla Motors Inc (NASDAQ:TSLA) will start to deliver its luxury sedans to China, from this month onwards. The company’s co-founder billionaire and CEO, Elon Musk, would be there to kick start the effort.

The news

Simon Sproule, vice president of marketing and communications, Tesla said in an interview that customer deliveries in China would begin later in the present month and that Elon Musk would be there personally to oversee the process. He also pointed out the there was huge potential for Tesla to explore in the country.

Musk had earlier mentioned that China could indeed become Tesla’s biggest market, with sales in the country matching that of the company’s volume in the U.S., as early as next year. The company’s entry into China, also the world’s most populous country, is a part of the plan to increase the production of its Model S sedan by almost 56%, in the present year. Tesla is also looking to foray into European markets.

Sproule, who was earlier working for Renault SA-Nissan Motor Co. alliance noted that Tesla Motors Inc (NASDAQ:TSLA), however, hadn’t set an exact date that would see the first deliveries to China. He said that the company already had a store in Beijing but were working at building the Supercharger network. These are rapid charging stations that allow a Model S to get a charge of 50% in just about 20 minutes. These are already operating in many places in the U.S. and also being setup in Europe.

The electric car maker’s entry into Chinese markets is closely being monitored by many of its rivals, who have convinced the people in the country to buy electric cars. China targets to have at least 5 million alternative energy powered vehicles by the year 2020. The nation, presently, lags from the target by a huge margin. This is mainly due to the fact that the there have been high costs involved and also the lack of proper charging stations. Public concerns over air pollution and the problems caused by it are also mounting.
