04.17.2014
Tesla Breaches $200 Again

After surging past the $200 mark in February this year, Tesla’s stock price dropped below it. We analyze if moving above the $200 mark and sustaining it is an option for the stock.
When Tesla Motors Inc’s (TSLA) stock dropped to lows of around $120 following earnings results in November, no one could have imagined it would unleash a bullish rally that would make the stock a favorite among momentum investors.
Prior to February’s earning results, the stock had returned close to 40% and was trading at $180. While some analysts had started to weigh the stock against the likelihood of its first ever breach of the $200 level, many frowned at the idea and warned against the growing short interest and the stock’s overvaluation.

After a soft test at the $200 mark prior to February’s earnings release, the stock surprised many as it rocketed past the $200 level, and showed no signs of stopping. By early March, the stock was positioned at over $250, a 630% upside compared to the price a year ago.

Soon enough the stock had tumbled more than 20% from its all-time highs on the back of a wider market phenomenon that slashed the high values of many momentum stocks, hurting Tesla the most. The stock hovered around $204 before sliding under the $200 mark to hit September-October price levels from last year.

Intraday action on the hourly price chart from April 11 reveals the stock price testing the $200 mark twice in quick succession. The result of this movement was a further slide down to the $180 level where price stalled. As of now, Tesla’s stock price stands slightly shy of the $200 mark at $199.

Tesla’s stock price of around $199 is just above the 100 period simple moving average (SMA), which equals $186.38. This has happened for the first time since January 2014; when the stock price moved beyond its moving average. In January, the stock had moved up 63% after it went past the 100 SMA. Now that price is revisiting the 100 SMA, investors can expect it to go beyond $200 again. However, if the share price fails to hold at the 100 SMA, it would lend more plausibility to the increasing bearish sentiment on the stock.

Fundamentally, the stock has been a mixed pie. Optimistic investors are hoping for the success of Tesla’s Model S in China as the company launches the luxury electric vehicle in the country later this month. In March, the company broke the record for most number of unit sales in Norway, posting unit sales of 1,493 for its Model.

Investors are also anxiously awaiting the release of the Model X, an exciting addition to the electric-car maker’s luxury brand portfolio, and the launch of Model E a little later. The wider appeal of the Model E due to a lower price tag is expected to boost sales for the company in coming years.

Tesla’s decision to build the GigaFactory, which is expected to manufacture 500,000 Lithium-ion batteries for its cars by 2020, has also interested investors as it defines the company’s confidence in the future outlook of its business.

Another equally vocal group of analysts and investors find the stock overvalued since it still trades at a year’s price-to-earnings multiple of about 131.9x, despite losing much of the bullish steam since last month.
Analysts at Barclays see Tesla in for a rough ride in China, as the company works to develop a sound network of charging stations and service and repair centers across the fourth-largest country in the world.
Researchers at Motor Intelligence have also spotted a downward trend in unit sales for Tesla’s most successful car, the Model S, in the US over the last year. Whether Tesla is able to strike favorable deals with auto dealers and policy makers in other states after having successfully done so in Ohio and New York also interests investors.
According to Bloomberg, the short interest for Tesla's stock is currently 32.2% of the company’s total float. Notably though, the short interest has actually declined almost 10 percentage points over the last two weeks.
Historically, Tesla’s stock has been extremely volatile after important announcements and developments. Whether Tesla sustains a move beyond $200 will fundamentally depend on the earnings release due next month, as well as other major developments discussed above. Long term stock drivers will include the company’s success in China as well as the fate of the GigaFactory, and how close the company comes to achieving its target of manufacturing 500,000 electric cars globally by 2020.