04.05.2014

Tesla - Driven By Noise, But High-Quality Noise

The fact that TSLA stock can’t be justified on the basis of value is not a deterrent from owning the shares.
Market equilibrium does not require price to equal value; price actually equals value plus noise.
Among large-cap stocks, we can make money through noise just as readily as we can through value.
The key is to differentiate between high-quality noise and low-quality noise.
TSLA can be justified on the basis of high-quality noise; the key is to make sure you take the trouble to do the grunt work. 

Let's talk about Tesla Motors (TSLA). Yeah, Tesla, the electric car company with no profits, a price/sales ratio of 13.75 and a price/book ratio of 41.49. For perspective, consider that the S&P 500 medians are 2.06 and 3.19 respectively and that the corresponding ratios for Amazon.com (AMZN), long seen by many as the poster child of ridiculous overvaluation, are 2.09 and 15.99. As to P/E, we obviously can't compute it for TSLA since the company remains in the red. But still, TSLA stock remains far above the levels at which classic cash-flow-oriented valuation models might put it.

Obviously, when it comes to TSLA's stock price, there's a lot going on besides value. And because of that, according to what had long been one of my favorite investment guru-quotes from Peter Lynch, it would seem that the complacent longs are sitting ducks waiting to get their heads handed to them.

    If I could avoid a single stock, it would be the hottest stock in the hottest industry, the one that gets the most favorable publicity, the one that every investor hears about in the car pool or on the commuter train - and succumbing to social pressure, often buys.

    Hot stocks can go up fast - usually out of sight of any known landmarks of value, but since there's nothing but hope and thin air to support them, they fall just as quickly. If you aren't clever at selling hot stocks (and the fact that you've bought them is a clue you won't be), you'll soon see your profits turn into losses, because when the price falls, it's not going to fall slowly, nor is it likely to stop at the level where you jumped in.

It sure seems like Lynch was talking about TSLA, doesn't it (the auto industry isn't hot, but electric autos sure are). He wasn't, since he penned those words long before TSLA came into being. But let's play "lit crit" (literary criticism) and say Lynch was foreshadowing TSLA.

So what, exactly, is going on with TSLA? The market isn't dumb. Lynch and his teachings have been out there for a long time. Ditto Warren Buffett and the Ben Graham revival he sparked. We know what value is. And for those of us who might have talked ourselves into believing it was pushed aside by some sort of new paradigm, one would surely have thought that the horrifying experience of 2000-02, not to mention the late-2000s real estate crash, would have taught us to disavow such wishful nonsense. And it's not as if anybody thinks TSLA is more prosperous than it is. This is the information age; we have all the numbers we want just a few mouse-clicks away and all available for the low, low price of zero. So we have to assume the investment community knows what the valuation metrics show.


Let's consider the core problem with valuing TSLA: Nobody knows how big the electric auto market will become, how long it will take to reach a normal level, and how big a share of it TSLA will have. The business is in the process of being invented. We have no relevant precedents and no reliable data we can use for valuation models. Lots of people have ideas on these topics and offer assumptions. But that's all they are, assumptions - or to put it less politely, guesses or even wild guesses. The truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth is that NOBODY KNOWS what TSLA is worth! Here, however, are some things we do know: TSLA logged $615 million in sales in the latest quarter, up 101% from the year earlier quarter, when sales were $306 million, and up at an average annual rate of 297% from the fourth quarter of 2011, when sales were just $39 million. None of those growth rates come anything close to anything a value investor can plug into a classic valuation model, which typical thinks in terms of growth rates that are normal, sustainable through infinity. We also can assume, with a reasonable degree of confidence, that electric autos really matter and that our ability to keep on driving without continuing to exhaust and ultimately non-renewable source of fuel really is a big deal. And there seems to be enough coming from people who've actually driven Tesla autos that they're pretty good, enough so to justify an assumption that the company will have at least some reasonable share of this market. Moreover, precedent from the business world, particularly manufacturing and technology, allows us to assume that as electric car production comes down the learning curve, margins and profits will eventually wind up at adequate levels. The problem, though, is that we can't really use any of these assumptions to come up with a reliable estimate of value for TSLA stock.


One of the best at valuing emerging companies is Professor Aswath Damodaran of the Stern School of Finance at New York University. On March 25, 2014, he published an article on Seeking Alpha explaining why he increased his TSLA valuation from $67 (according to a blog he published in September 2013) to $99.85-$118.47. That was still below the prevailing stock price, but the most noteworthy thing was the magnitude of increase in such a short time and his closing thoughts