03.24.2014

Hybrid And Electric Vehicle Market Growth - Ford, Tesla And Nissan Well-Positioned




    Growth from the hybrid & electric vehicle (EV) markets will outpace that of the overall global car mark.
    China’s market can rapidly expand behind a government push for more hybrid and electric vehicles to combat polluti.
    Purchasing trends in auto are positive and the European market is recovering. Ford is well-positioned there with sales growth of 11.6% in Feb 2014 (8% market as a whole).
    Ford Motor (F) and Tesla (TSLA) are two stocks that can benefit from trends emerging in the hybrid and EV market. Toyota (TM) and Nissan (NSANF) are also key players.
    Other alternative fuel stocks that benefit from industry trends are companies like Plug Power (PLUG).

Positioning within the hybrid and electric markets is crucial for the large auto manufacturers - Ford (F) , General Motors (GM) and Toyota (TM) among them. The "green" market will account for an increasing portion of global demand. Improvement in the technology and lower price points will help drive adoption. Capturing market share and adopting the right technologies now will position firms for the future. While Toyota has dominated the hybrid market, and Tesla (TSLA) and Nissan (OTCPK:NSANF) the electric market, we see Ford making key gains on these established players. 
Ford in particular has done well over the past year gaining position in the plug-in hybrid vehicle portion of the market. The Ford Fusion Energi and C-Max Energi grew by 555% and 65% year-over-year, respectively according to the February 2014 auto data. Ford had a 36% share of this market in February compared to a 0% market share just 16 months ago.
The plug-in hybrid market brings drivers the best of both worlds and has grown to sales of almost 49,008 vehicles, up 27% from 2012 and almost non-existent levels in 2011. The global forecast is for an increase of 67% in 2014 according to IHS Automotive with EMEA accounting of the largest portion of growth. With pure electrics, the current battery technology in most vehicles only supports about 70-90 miles per charge. Tesla is an exception to this and states its Model S can go 300 highway miles on one charge.

Charge time is also a near-term headwind for electrics only vehicles. It can take 20 hours at 120V or 4 hours at 240V which requires a special charging station. Plug-in hybrids can cut emissions and fuel purchases while still allowing for long-distance travel. Owners can make this their primary daily driver.

Ford is well positioned in the plug-in electric vehicle market with its product offering and current market share trends noted above. In addition, it is introducing the C-Max Solar Energi Concept, a car that would have a solar panel in the roof to help charge the car.

Ford is not a major player in the all-electric vehicle market, with just 3.9% of sales, where Nissan and Tesla dominate, each with a market share of 42% based on the data from hybridcars.com.

Ford sold 17.4% of hybrid vehicles in February of this year. That is up from December and almost entirely accounted for by market share taken from Toyota who lost almost ~800bps of market share.