04.21.2014

Tesla Factory Electrifies Lithium Producers

Tesla's (TSLA) release of details on its proposed Gigafactory to make lithium-ion cells for its future electric cars sent waves through the lithium market, with stock prices for narrow-moat producers Rockwood Holdings (ROC) and Sociedad Quimica y Minera de Chile (SQM) reacting positively. Tesla's announcement does not change our view that lithium prices are likely to see pressure over the long run, as we think supply through the end of the decade will be more than sufficient to meet one of the strongest demand profiles for any industrial chemical. Operating from a low-cost resource base in Chile, Rockwood and SQM have the ability to invest in their economic moats if Tesla can bring its third-generation car, the Model E, to the market at a price and driving range that lead to increased adoption rates.
Tesla expects its Gigafactory to have capacity to build 500,000 pure-electric vehicles, or EVs, by 2020. Tesla builds pure-electric vehicles as opposed to other vehicles that include electric powertrains, including hybrid electric vehicles, or HEVs, and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles, or PHEVs. There's no doubt that Tesla's executing on its ambitious plans is a positive for global lithium producers as Rockwood estimates that a pure-electric vehicle uses roughly 25 kilograms of lithium - more than 7,000 times the amount needed to produce a cellphone battery. For the Tesla Model S, lithium use has been pegged at closer to 40 kg per vehicle. That said, pure-electric vehicles are growing off such a small base that the impact on lithium demand - at least to the end of the decade - is somewhat limited.
Our demand model for lithium assumes that in 2020 EV sales will account for less than 2% of global auto demand. This translates to EV lithium use accounting for only 15% of global lithium demand by 2020. If we assume that Tesla's announced vehicle capacity of 500,000 by 2020 is totally incremental to our forecast of roughly 1.5 million pure-electric units - that is, we simply add 500,000 new EV batteries to our forecast - our lithium demand compound annual growth rate from 2012 to 2020 increases only about 1%, from about 8% to 9%. We forecast industrywide EV sales of about 1.5 million units in 2020. This would certainly be a very bullish take on Tesla's battery plans, as we had implicitly built rapid Tesla growth into our prior EV forecast. As such, we're essentially leaving our long-term demand outlook for lithium unchanged, as it has already taken into account swift growth in EV production and sales.