03.28.2014


MARKET SNAPSHOT: Tesla, Cuomo Cut Deal To Keep N.Y. Stores
 Electric car maker Tesla Motors Inc. struck a deal Friday with New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo and the state's car dealers that will allow it to keep five existing company-owned stores, as long as it doesn't open more direct sale outlets in the state.

According to the agreement between Tesla ( TSLA ) , Mr. Cuomo, legislative leaders and auto dealers, additional Tesla retail locations would need to be established under a "strengthened dealer franchise law." In return, elected officials agreed to drop language in a bill in the state legislature that would have forced Tesla to close its existing direct- sale operations.

Also Friday, Tesla said it would add titanium shielding and an aluminum deflector plate to the underbody of its Model S luxury electric car to prevent possible fires that could be caused by running over objects.

The Palo Alto, Calif.-based company has already begun installing the shielding on new vehicles and will install it on existing cars when customers bring them in. The move comes as the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration said it has closed an investigation of two fires involving Tesla Model S sedans, after Tesla said it would add additional shielding to protect the batteries in the electric luxury cars. The agency said the increased underbody protection should reduce the risk of fires if the car runs over an object in the road that pierces the battery pack.

Tesla's agreement with New York, meanwhile, is similar to one Tesla reached earlier this week in Ohio, where the company will be allowed to keep operating two company-owned retail stores in the state, and open just one more. The Ohio deal requires approval from that state's legislature, as does New York's. But New York's agreement has the support of legislative leaders and the governor, meaning its approval by the legislature is all but ensured.

Read more: http://www.nasdaq.com/article/market-snapshot-tesla-cuomo-cut-deal-to-keep-ny-stores-20140328-00645#ixzz2zk5Gc1gs
