03.04.2014

Tesla: An Investment Based On Optionality And The Genius Of Elon Musk

Few stocks have garnered as passionate a following of supporters and detractors as Tesla Motors (TSLA). With a 344% return in 2013 it was one of the best performing stocks of the year and recently a very optimistic Morgan Stanley analyst's article sent the stock soaring to record highs of $258 and a $31 billion market capitalization.

Tesla skeptics point out that the company only sold 22,477 cars in 2013 which means that the market is valuing each car sold at $1.38 million/car in 2013 and $838,000/projected car sold in 2014. This simple metric does seem to indicate that Tesla is ridiculously overpriced. However, let's compare how other car makers are priced in terms of market cap/car sold.

Thus, we see that Tesla seems to be valued 233x more than GM and 37x more than Toyota (TM) (the world's biggest and most valuable car company). However, there are 3 reasons why I believe that Tesla deserves a premium over these more established automakers. These reasons are better operating margins, an objectively better product and the optionality that goes along with the leadership and innovative genius of Tesla co-founder and CEO Elon Musk.

Highest Operating Margins in the Industry

According to the last earnings report Tesla achieved an operating margin of 25% and the company guided to 28% operating margins for 2014. In the last investor presentation, the company stated that Model X sales are to begin in Q4 of 2014. The Model X is to be a CUV based on the Model S and include double motor all-wheel drive. It seems reasonable to assume that the price of this vehicle will be higher than that of the Model S. Since SUVs and CUVs are higher margin products than sedans let's assume a slight improvement in the company's overall operating margin to 30% in 2016. With the cheaper Model E coming in 2017, 2016 will be the last year of pure higher margin Model S and Model X.


Reason two that Tesla deserves a premium over industry leader Toyota is that its cars are objectively better. Toyota has built its empire on pretty much one thing - reliability. Toyota's cars are not the safest, most beautiful, best performing or most comfortable but Toyota's are the most reliable. But Tesla's cars have no moving parts other than the electric motor. There are no valve timing belts to break and no filters or oil to change. There is essentially no maintenance to be performed on a Tesla. This means that there is a good probability that Tesla is now the most reliable car company in the world. We'll have to see what 2014 JD Power and Associates initial quality study shows but Toyota might lose its one advantage.

If Tesla can take that crown from Toyota; then it will have a car that is: more beautiful, more comfortable, (no engine means more space for storage and passengers), safer, (the Tesla Model S is the safest car ever tested by the NHTSA) and whose running costs are much lower. This is not only because there is essentially no maintenance to perform on a Tesla, but because charging your car at night is equivalent to filling up your tank with $.75/gallon gas. Compare this to the average price of regular, $3.44 and you can see that your fueling costs will be 78.2% lower in a Tesla.


In addition, consider this: In 2013 the Tesla Model S won 9 awards including Consumer Reports proclaiming it the best car they have ever tested, achieving a score of 99/100. Take a moment to consider this fact. In 2003, Tesla was founded in Silicon Valley. 10 years later it produced what is arguably the best car ever made. Imagine if Tesla can bring this caliber of quality and excellence to the Model X, the Model E and all the other models they will produce going forward. If each Tesla model is the most reliable, the most comfortable, the safest, the best performing, in its segment then there is no limit to how successful sales can grow. In that situation, the sales will be strong and market will correctly assign Tesla a premium to other car makers such as Toyota. I'll explain how large of a premium in a second but first I must cover one other premium I think Tesla deserves. This premium is the most important as it includes all the potential for market disruption that the company brings to the table.

Optionality and Elon Musk

Motley Fool's David Gardner penned the idea of "optionality" the idea that a company can morph into an entirely new company expanding beyond their original business model in exciting and profitable new ways. In 1996, Mr. Gardner recommended Amazon.com (AMZN) arguing that CEO and founder Jeff Bezos was an innovator and disruptor who could sell far more than books. Today, Amazon has expanded to selling everything from office supplies and groceries to cloud services.
This concept of optionality is what the Morgan Stanley analyst was focusing on when he raised his price target on Tesla to $320. While I think that analyst focused on the wrong things, his general idea was correct.

Investors in Tesla today are paying a major premium for Elon Musk, the CEO and co-founder of the company. Mr. Musk is the co-founder of PayPal, SpaceX and sits on the board of Solarcity (SCTY). He is an innovation dynamo (and allegedly inspiration for Robert Downey Jr.'s portrayal of "Iron Man"). Mr. Musk at 42 is still in his prime with many decades of innovation in front of him.

What the Morgan Stanley analyst was talking about when he made his admittedly pie-in-the-sky utopian proclamations (he literally stated that Tesla would usher in a "utopian society" within 20 years) is that Tesla can become far more than a simple electric car company.

Where the analyst went wrong was assuming that autonomous cars will be the key to Tesla's future. Rather the most obvious optionality for Tesla is two areas.

Optionality One: Battery and Electric Systems

In 2009, Daimler bought a 10% stake in Tesla and in 2010 Toyota bought $50 million of stock at Tesla's IPO. Both Companies have licensing arrangements with the company.

"The upcoming Mercedes B-class EV, which goes on sale in 2014, will feature a Tesla powertrain. Toyota, meanwhile, gave Tesla a $100 million contract to supply the electric motor, power electronics, battery, gearbox and software for the new $50,000 RAV4 EV. "

One of the main arguments Tesla skeptic's use against the company is that larger OEMs such as Toyota, GM and Volkswagen will easily crush the fledging upstart once Tesla proves the viability of electric cars.

There are three problems with this argument.