03.02.2014

Count To 20 Mississippi, Then Buy Tesla

Tesla (TSLA) short sellers finally got a little help this weekend. It's likely been a long, hard, cold road for them as they've watched the stock rocket over 600% in the last year.

And, interestingly enough, the news that might move the needle for short sellers doesn't even have anything to do with Tesla - it has to do with the Ukrainian/Russian conflict overseas. I'm predicting Asia and Europe will telegraph a pullback in the U.S. Markets to start the upcoming week.

My history with Tesla? I've been bullish on the stock since I started writing about it in 2013. I really think they're cooking something up; Tesla has met or exceeded all goals they've set out for and, until CEO Elon Musk gives me a reason not to, I trust in the job he's doing.

But, enough wasting time on Tesla shorts that have had their heads stomped in. Let's talk bullish. A pullback as a result of a broad market pullback could present a great entry point for Tesla. It's just a matter of letting it play out, if a pullback happens.

In January of this year, about 7 weeks ago, I wrote an article called "Tesla's Hidden Revenue Byproducts", which laid out the bullish catalyst for Tesla's stock 7 weeks ahead of time:

    In all of the valuations of Tesla, people are focused on the production and sale of vehicles. But, you have to ask - when pushing the front of a semi-emerging market (electric vehicles), what kind of price can you put on the solutions that Musk and his team are coming up with as they encounter challenge after challenge. And, furthermore, how many of these solutions will hold monetary value once Tesla is established and others start to follow in its path?

    As a logical connection to Tesla solving its own production problems comes another benefit: Tesla could hold IP or patents on certain electrical car based problem that they could either license or outright provide to other electric car makers. For instance, the battery issue - if Tesla develops and engineers in house solutions for its battery, don't you think other electric vehicle makers are going to want to apply the same technology to their vehicles?

That brings us to the Gigafactory - a factory that is supposed to produce lithium ion batteries at a rate that will blow current worldwide production out of the water.

This is what Tesla says about the Gigafactory, from their own website:

s what Tesla says about the Gigafactory, from their own website:

    As we at Tesla reach for our goal of producing a mass market electric car in approximately three years, we have an opportunity to leverage our projected demand for lithium ion batteries to reduce their cost faster than previously thought possible. In cooperation with strategic battery manufacturing partners, we're planning to build a large scale factory that will allow us to achieve economies of scale and minimize costs through innovative manufacturing, reduction of logistics waste, optimization of co-located processes and reduced overhead.

    The Gigafactory is designed to reduce cell costs much faster than the status quo and, by 2020, produce more lithium ion batteries annually than were produced worldwide in 2013. By the end of the first year of volume production of our mass market vehicle, we expect the Gigafactory will have driven down the per kWh cost of our battery pack by more than 30 percent.
Some analysts, like Joann Muller at Forbes, thinks the trickle down from the Gigafactory will be so substantial that it could save the U.S. battery business. Siddharth Dalal just penned a great article exploring, in depth, how profitable Tesla's SuperChargers can be. If you're looking for a little QA behind the estimates regarding Superchargers, give his article a read. He thinks that Tesla could have the highest margins per vehicle in the auto industry [more than GM (GM)/Ford (F)] in the coming years.It's interesting that it moved the stock as much as it did, considering there was a $1.6 billion financing in place to fund the operation. Perhaps some cues were taken from that, when it was announced that the bond offering was oversubscribed to the tune of an additional $400 million. 