03.29.2014

Tesla Is A Rock That People Break Themselves Against


    NHTSA has tossed out any chance of defect causing Model S fires.
    States are already starting to come around on direct selling.
    Tesla has violently destroyed every problem that has stood in its way as a company thus far, with ease.

"Don't stand in Elon Musk's way" is starting to seem like the de facto Tesla motto. Maybe they'll print it on the backside of the floor mats, or somewhere else nuanced.

I wrote at the end of last week that it may have been time to enter back into Tesla (TSLA), as the stock dropped closer and closer to the $200 level again. Fundamental valuation traders worldwide glared at my article angrily from behind their 14 monitor setups while adjusting their bow-ties and sipping imported Brazilian dark roast coffee. I could feel their glares through the screen.

Speaking of phrases, how about the phrase, "a defect trend has not been identified." This is the phrase that Seeking Alpha is reporting was used by the NHTSA after looking into the Model S fires that were a major headline months ago, but that everyone has since forgotten. Remember? I told you this was coming in October of last year:

Speaking of farcical reasons that shorts have brought up time in and time out, we have now found ourselves mired in the seductive sounding issue of states possibly preventing Tesla direct sales. Oh, brazen controversy, how you timelessly bind your loins to the Tesla shorts!

The reason this whole direct sales thing is also a farce, as I've said a couple times over now, is the fact that there's going to be rules that can be bent in order to make sales of Teslas legal, wherever it needs to happen.

Further, I've argued that for every problem Elon Musk has been able to face thus far, he's found a solution. So, why would this situation be any different? If most people that buy a Tesla need to do so online anyway - what are we really even arguing about? As John Malkovich said in "Burn After Reading", "who's ass didn't I kiss?"

USA Today first reported on the 25th:

    Having been spurned by New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, Tesla Motors may have found a friend in the state's legislature when it come to the issue of being allowed to sell its electric cars directly to the public.

    A state assemblyman has introduced a bill into the New Jersey Legislature that would allow those sales, overturning a ban by the state Motor Vehicle Commission that brought howls of protest from Tesla.

    Tesla, through its CEO Elon Musk, has alleged that Christie's administration engaged in a backroom deal that reversed a previous understanding, allowing Tesla to keep open its own stores in the state. Christie had said if Tesla doesn't like the commission's decision, take up the issue with the legislature.

I've been calling this situation a farce from my original article on the situation, "Can New Jersey Harsh Tesla's Mellow?":

    Lest we forget the path that Tesla as a company has already blazed. Say what you want about the company's valuation and the multiple that it trades at, but Tesla could be a Harvard Business School case study on starting a business - setting lofty goals, meeting or exceeding every one of them, and making shareholders money while satisfying customers and third-party consumer reporting companies with a revolutionary product.

    When I think about Governor Larry the Cable Guy trying to prevent Musk from direct selling his vehicles in New Jersey because Tesla obviously isn't playing ball with special interest groups and the government of New Jersey, that gets filed under "small talk" problems for me.


