04.23.2014
Tesla Motors Inc Investors Are Getting Excited Again

Although Tesla Motors Inc (NASDAQ:TSLA) continued its downward streak by dropping last week (falling 2.78 percent from the end of trading on Friday, April 11, 2014, to Thursday, April 17, before closing for Good Friday), the stock has picked up again yesterday (Monday) and today.
Yesterday, TSLA rose 3.16 percent, and so far today, as of 1:50 p.m. ET, the stock has risen another 5.19 percent, easily beating the Dow, which is currently up 0.67 percent; NASDAQ, up 1.14 percent; and the S&P 500, up 0.68 percent so far for the day.
Investors are getting excited about Tesla today because the company delivered its first cars in China. (Related: Apple Inc. (AAPL) Possibly Acquiring Tesla Motors Inc (TSLA)?)
The company had a ceremony in its Beijing office where it delivered the first eight Model S cars to Chinese consumers.
Tesla’s CEO, Elon Musk, spoke to reporters today and to a packed crowd yesterday at an event called the Geekpark Conference in Beijing.
He said that he planned to invest “several hundred million dollars” to open “several hundred” charging stations in China. (Related: More Bad News For Tesla Motors Inc (TSLA))
The charging stations are the crucial infrastructure that allow Tesla car drivers to travel long distances.
Musk also said that he plans to start manufacturing cars within China in three or four years.
Turning his attention to the U.S., Musk said that Panasonic (OTC: PCRFY) would probably be a partner in Tesla’s U.S. gigafactories.
The way he put it, while speaking to the Wall Sreet Journal, was that he “would be surprised if Panasonic is not our partner.”
He said that recent news reports that Panasonic may not be interested in the gigafactories had “misinterpreted” what Panasonic’s president had said.
Musk also mentioned that the gigafactories will have other partners as well, and he said we should expect more specific news this about this in two to three months.
In earlier news, AutoBlog reported that a Chinese investor had ordered 100 Model S cars that will be converted by an aftermarket company into both hard-top and soft-top convertibles.
Tesla announced that it would be releasing its first-quarter 2014 earnings after the close of market on Wednesday, May 7, 2014, and would hold a live question-and-answer online broadcast at 5:30 p.m. ET.
The event can be accessed live, with an archived replay available starting approximately two hours after the webcast at http://ir.teslamotors.com.
As of last week, TSLA was the most-shorted NASDAQ stock, according to Makit, a financial research firm. (Related: Apple Inc. (AAPL) Possibly Acquiring Tesla Motors Inc (TSLA)?)
TSLA continues to be a volatile stock, with rises and falls that are much larger than that of the market as a whole.
If you would like to invest in TSLA while protecting yourself against some of the risk of investing in individual stocks, and if you like the prospects of the automobile sector, consider investing in CARZ, an EFT that tracks the NASDAQ OMX Global Auto Index and has 3.32 percent of its holdings in TSLA.