03.12.2014


Has Tesla's Valuation Looked Too Far Into The Future?


    Tesla is now incorporating a large degree of future growth into its valuation.
    Future plans for the Gigafactory will require large amounts of capital that now exceed the company's current balance sheet.
    Analyst estimates remain based on forecasts that extend nearly 15 years into the future.

Tesla Motors (TSLA) has become a story of innovation and endurance as the electric car company survived the Great Recession and outperformed competitors at every turn. Even now as the company faces unique challenges, Tesla has managed to capture the imagination of its investor audience. Tesla's share price over the past few months has soared as the company has come to embody the idea of innovation. However, the company's share price may soon be reaching a new ceiling as expectations have already come to incorporate much of the company's future growth.


Seth Klarman, American billionaire and founder of the Baupost Group, may be best known for his book titled "Margin of Safety: Risk-Averse Value Investing Strategies for the Thoughtful Investor." But in recent days, the investment guru has become an outspoken critic of the asset price bubble now forming in technology companies including Tesla Motors. As shown in the article found here, he stated that such companies were reaching "nosebleed valuations."

What appears to have alarmed Klarman along with a growing portion of the investment community ultimately comes down to the valuation being placed on future growth. For a promising company like Tesla Motors, there is an argument to be made that popular sentiment has begun to price in perfection prior to obtained performance. No greater can this fact be seen than in the recent analyst upgrade made by Morgan Stanley analyst, Adam Jonas.

In the report made by Morgan Stanley described in the article found here, Jonas estimates that by 2028, Tesla Motors should begin to sell over 1.1 million units of production. By looking nearly 15 years into the possible future, Jonas estimates that Tesla may one day sell less than 40% of the number of vehicles sold by General Motors (GM) in 2013. Nevertheless, despite these ambitious predictions of continued success, the price of Tesla's stock jumped more than 11% on the report - and market capitalization increase of more than $3 billion.

Tesla Motors now trades with a market capitalization of $30.11 billion based on the intraday price of $244 as of March 11. Today, Tesla now trades at over half of the $58 billion market capitalization of General Motors, the industry giant which produced over 2.8 million vehicles in 2013. This is despite the fact that Tesla only plans to build 35,000 Model S Sedans in 2014.

One significant element that has enabled this rapid share price acceleration has been the association of the company with high-tech growth. Jonas writes in the same report that Tesla could one day become a major competitor in the electrical grid storage business. He writes the following:

    "Tesla's request to disrupt a trillion dollar car industry offers an adjacent opportunity to disrupt a trillion dollar electric utility industry"

As lofty as these ambitions may be, the fact remains that the company has yet to build out the infrastructure necessary to compete in such a clean-tech utility industry. Herein lies one of the more disturbing facts behind Tesla's futuristic plans.


According to the Wall Street Journal in an article found here, Tesla is proposing a battery "Gigafactory" that could cost up to $5 billion. Indeed, this plant would only enable the company to sell as many as 500,000 vehicles a year. Should it also be used to address the electric utility industry, it is clear that several of these plants will be needed in order to meet the 15-year 1.1 million vehicle estimate proposed by Morgan Stanley's Adam Jonas