04.03.2014

Tesla Motors Inc. (NASDAQ:TSLA) Breaks Norwegian Sales Records


Silicon Valley’s company Tesla Motors Inc. (NASDAQ:TSLA) has been making news too often these days. The company, which recently launched its sedan the Model S, has reported that it sold 1493 sedans in Norway and that too for the month of March alone. This is something remarkable considering that the country has over five million denizens. What makes this more remarkable is the fact that, Tesla CEO Elon Musk was forced to make an apology to the country’s customers over a Tesla adapter that had issues working with a grid used for charging.

It’s like selling cakes for Tesla

With 1493 cars being shipped to this tiny Scandinavian country, it represented a two fold increase in monthly sales. The second highest selling car is the Volkswagen Golf, which is a popular gas powered car and also economical, and its sales stood at 624 units.

The company, at present has four dealerships in Norway, two of them in capital, Oslo and another two in the west coast. Tax incentives are being provided to those who purchase electric cars and despite, the country’s economy booming due to oil and gas industries.

Tesla has been elated

A Tesla spokesman mentioned that Norway was a small country and yet, there has been a huge demand for Tesla’s Model S. Other car makers such as Mitsubishi and Nissan have been targeting the country with electric car offerings for their customers. The Nissan Leaf had been Norway’s top seller for the month of February with 484 cars.

The government has been providing tax incentives and at the same they also offer some other benefits. Municipalities offer free charging and parking facilities to owners of electric vehicles besides offering high speed lanes for cars without passengers or carpools.

The record

Prior to this, Subaru had the record of selling 1328 Forresters, and that was way back in 1986. So Tesla’s 1493 Model S sedans sold in March easily skips past the previous record.

The Model S has been received very well by customers and seems like the company’s best bet at moving things in the right direction.
