03.11.2014



Tesla to End Sale of Electric Cars in New Jersey


Tesla Motors Inc. will end all electric car sales in New Jersey starting April 1, after it failed to win an 11th-hour battle to head off a state regulatory proposal making it illegal for it to sell vehicles to consumers without a dealer.



The New Jersey Motor Vehicle Commission approved a rule change Tuesday that would require auto retailers to have a franchise agreement with an auto manufacturer to be granted a license to sell cars in the state.

Tesla owns its stores, selling directly to consumers, something that dealer groups in New Jersey and other states have fought, primarily through legislation.

 A Tesla executive said the move amounts to a "death penalty" to its auto retail outlets in New Jersey and could encourage regulators in other states to follow suit.

The rule, which deals with the licensing of auto dealers, would require that a person have a franchise agreement with an auto manufacturer to be granted a license.

Tesla's vice president of business development, Diarmuid O'Connell, said during a conference call Tuesday that New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie's administration "abrogated" an agreement to hold off action on the proposal by the state's Motor Vehicle Commission.

"This is at the very least disappointing, if not outright outrageous what's going on with our business in N.J. right now," Mr. O'Connell said.

A spokesman for the governor said that administration has made clear to Tesla that it would need legislation to establish direct sales operations under New Jersey law.

"This administration doesn't find it appropriate to unilaterally change the way cars are sold in New Jersey without legislation," the spokesperson said. "Tesla has been aware of this position from the beginning."

Tesla has been successful in knocking down legislative efforts in other states to block its direct-to-consumer sales.

The administrative rule change approved in New Jersey would in effect make it illegal for the state to renew Tesla's license to sell cars, a move that company officials said would force it to close its two stores in the state, lay off workers and cancel plans for future expansion.

New Jersey is now the third state in which Tesla is banned from selling cars directly to consumers. The other two are Texas and Arizona.

 Tesla operates two stores in New Jersey with 27 employees and had plans for more. It is unclear whether Tesla would revert the stores to "galleries," which act as showrooms for vehicles, but consumers can't purchase cars there.

Mr. O'Connell called the gallery option a "sub-optimal" situation, and blamed New Jersey's dealer coalition for quietly pushing their agenda with regulators, rather than in a public, legislative forum. Tesla executives had only learned about the commissioners' meeting in the last "72 hours," he said.

"Clearly, a decision was made rather abruptly and certainly without any consultation with us," Mr. O'Connell said. " There are a couple levels of bad faith and surreptitious behavior."

At the same time, Tesla is facing new challenges in Ohio, where legislation has been proposed to prevent direct sales. Tesla officials worry that the tactic taken in New Jersey could eventually be adopted by dealer groups in other states if it works in shutting down its stores.

"They've found it difficult to advance their arguments in the light of day," Mr. O'Connell said. "They have increasingly gone underground."

The dealers have said they fear Tesla's model could lead to contagion of direct sales with other manufacturers, ending a century of franchise operations that protect territories and the sunk investment in large operations made by private businesspeople.

Tesla officials defended the model, saying that the electric technology is new and needs the manufacturer to be more hands-on in educating its consumers.

Tesla hasn't ruled out countering the state-by-state opposition with an appeal to the federal courts or pursing legislative action in Congress.

"Certainly that's one of the strategies we've discussed," Mr. O'Connell said. But no decision has been made, and the company wouldn't likely pursue action at the federal level unless it was shut out of one of its core markets, he said.

Read more: http://www.nasdaq.com/article/tesla-to-no-longer-sell-electric-cars-in-nj-effective-april-1-20140311-01216#ixzz2zk9oCZRM

